USER GUIDE: The King - Card Adventure
Software Requirements
To run The King: Card Adventure, ensure you have the following:

1. Python Installation
Python 3.7 or later (Recommended: 3.12.2)

Download from the official Python website

2. Required Python Packages
Install the following packages using pip (Python’s package manager):

bash
pip install pygame
Pygame: Used for game rendering, sound, and input handling.

3. Code Editor (Optional but Recommended)
Visual Studio Code (VSCode) (with Python extension)

PyCharm (for better Python debugging)

JupyterLab (if you prefer notebook-style execution)

4. Permissions
Ensure you have read/write permissions for the game directory (needed for saving progress).

Hardware Requirements
Minimum RAM: 500MB (for smooth gameplay)

Graphics: Any modern GPU (integrated or dedicated)

Storage: ~10MB (for game files and saves)

Instructions to Run the Game
1. Download the Game Files
Ensure you have the following files in your game directory:

main.py (the main game script)

scenes.json (contains all story scenes)

2. Running the Game
Option 1: Using Terminal/Command Prompt
Open Terminal (Linux/macOS) or Command Prompt (Windows).

Navigate to the game directory:

bash
cd path/to/game_folder
Run the game:

bash
python main.py
(If multiple Python versions are installed, use python3 main.py.)

Option 2: Using an IDE (VSCode, PyCharm, etc.)
Open the game folder in your IDE.

Run main.py by clicking the Run button (▶️) or pressing F5.

Option 3: Executable (If Available)
If the game is packaged as an .exe (Windows) or .app (macOS), simply double-click it.

How to Play
1. Main Menu
When you launch the game, you’ll see:

Play: Start a new game.

Continue: Load a previous save (if available).

Quit: Exit the game.

2. Game Mechanics
A. Story Mode (Card Swiping Decisions)
You are presented with interactive story cards.

Swipe Left (←): Choose Option A (Red).

Swipe Right (→): Choose Option B (Green).

Swipe Down (↓): Choose Option C (Blue, if available).

Your choices affect:

Equipment (weapons, shields, armor).

Boss difficulty.

Story path.

B. Combat Mode (Turn-Based Card Battle)
Objective: Defeat the boss using attack cards.

Player Turn:

Click on a combat card to attack (costs stamina).

Stamina regenerates each turn (max: 5).

Enemy Turn:

The boss attacks automatically.

Some bosses have special abilities (e.g., Medusa’s petrifying gaze).

3. Combat Controls
Click on a card to use it.

Stamina Management:

Each card has a cost (1-2 stamina).

If you run out of stamina, you skip your turn.

4. Inventory & Equipment
Weapons: Increase attack damage.

Armor: Reduces incoming damage.

Shields: Blocks extra damage.

5. Boss Battles
Three Unique Bosses:

Medusa (High damage, petrifying gaze).

Swamp Horror (Toxic attacks, tentacle strikes).

Dragon (Fire breath, high HP).

Defeating a Boss leads to the victory ending.

Losing sends you back to the main menu.

Game Progress & Saving
Auto-Save: The game saves after every decision.

Manual Save: Not needed (progress is stored in progress.json).

To Reset: Delete progress.json from the game folder.

Troubleshooting
Common Issues & Fixes
Issue	Solution
Game crashes on startup	Ensure scenes.json is in the same folder.
No sound effects	Check if Pygame audio drivers are installed.
Save file not loading	Delete progress.json and restart.
Black screen	Update Pygame (pip install --upgrade pygame).
Enjoy the Game!
Experiment with different choices to unlock new story paths.

Strategize in combat by balancing stamina and attacks.

Try all three boss routes for unique endings!

Happy adventuring! 🎮⚔️

